Feel free to edit and reformat these as you see fit:


Core gameplay focus will be on combat, hacking, and infiltration.
Vehicles/drones and minor survival game elements will be a secondary priority.

Two options for setting:
Fictional/unnamed city on Earth
Mars colony

Tech level will include cybernetic enhancements, genetic engineering, and
primitive nanotech. Space exploration is in its early stages. Full-dive VR
exists, but "sleeve"/consciousness transfer technology does not. More advanced
tech may exist, but is generally unknown to the public and unavailable to the
player.


Combat system options:

D&D/d20 style
ToHit - ArmorClass + d20, if result is >= 20 attack hits
Roll weapon's damage dice and add character's strength to determine damage
Angband and Nethack use this
Simple, but lacks detail and realism. No degrees of success. Damage doesn't
impose penalties (until it kills you). Combat tends to be drawn out, which may
be more desirable for a roguelike because of permanent death.

Shadowrun/White Wolf style
Attacker rolls a number of d6s or d10s equal to their skill. Dice that meet the
target number (representing attack difficulty) are successes. Defender rolls
combat pool dice to dodge, but attacker can also use combat pool. One or more
net successes is a hit, and damage scales up based on net total number of
successes. Defender rolls body dice to reduce damage, with target number based
on weapon power vs armor rating. Damage imposes penalties to subsequent
actions.
More realistic, but possibly too deadly for a roguelike due to permanent death
and lack of allies to save you when you go down. Could change damage scaling to
compensate. Needing to make choices about combat pool also doesn't work very
well for a roguelike.

Gemstone 3/Rolemaster Style
AttackStrengh - DefenseStrength + Modifier + d100, if result is > 100 attack hits
Look up result on table based on weapon type vs armor type. Higher results will
cause more HP damage and will also cause criticals, specific wounds that cause
extra damage and additional effects. Fights are usually ended by landing a
solid critical or two, rather than just simple HP loss.
Also realistic and deadly. Specific wounds on specific body parts may work well
with the setting, since severed/mangled limbs will necessitate cybernetic
replacement.

Other options?


Features wishlist:

Crafting - maybe not as extensive as other games, but should be able to build
your own computers/vehicles/etc and scavenge discarded junk for useful parts

Factions that interact with each other, vie for territory/wealth/power, and can
be influenced by player actions

Generate game world from real-world GIS data, then build on it procedurally
from there


Possible historical timeline elements:

Second coup attempt in the US in/around 2028, this time technically successful.
There's significant resistance from portions of the military and (non LE)
federal agencies. Massive street protests and partisan violence. With the
federal government mostly paralyzed, deep blue states secede, joined by some
(parts of?) light blue states. (Could determine this procedurally, using 2020
per-county voting data.)
Look into the scenarios that the "Transition Integrity Project" gamed out for
more material here:
https://www.bostonglobe.com/2020/07/25/nation/bipartisan-group-secretly-gathered-game-out-contested-trump-biden-election-it-wasnt-pretty/
(Side note, I want to know more about this RPG that they were using)
Once the dust settles, secessionist states form 2(?) blocs, one for the east
coast and one for the west coast, allied with each other. Significant tensions
on borders, but actual military conflict is minimal. Instead, red and blue try
to undermine each other through clandestine support of "freedom fighters" in
each territory.
Blue state blocs are primarily neoliberal. The corporations run the government,
in typical cyberpunk fashion.
Red state US ends up with a fascistic, theocratic character. The government
"partners with" (controls) specific favored corporations.
What's going on in the rest of the world? Who does each side ally with?
Alliances are another thing that could be procedurally determined, possibly
through the faction system.
